.TH termnetd 1 01/08/00  GNU Terminal Server Daemon

.SH NAME
termnetd \- Terminal Server daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B termnetd
[\-s port] [\-c configfile] [\-d level] [\-n] [\-p] [\-v]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page documents the
.BR termnetd
terminal daemon. This command allows telnet sessions to be established
with a unit's serial ports.
.PP
The following features are available:
.IP
A Control port for viewing and modifying the status of the ports
.IP
Telnet compatible.
.IP
Full device configuration.
.IP
Round robin port selection.
.IP
Multiple port configurations for each device.
.IP
Logs status & connection information to the system logs.
.IP
Live  setting of a device's baud rate and port configuration using the
.BR termnet
program.
.IP
Device  locking.  If    a   device is not available for a given TCP/IP
port,  the  connection  will be closed with no error message after the
connection  is  made.  Under  no  circumstances  will  2  simultaneous
connections be made to a single device.
.PP
The    devices  are  not  opened until a connection is established to
them.  Therefore, it is possible to still run Getty on the device. The
drawback  to  this is that another program can open a device and there
is no way for the daemon to tell that it is presently in use.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-c config\-file"
Set the configuration file to one other than the default of
.BR "/etc/termnetd.conf"
.TP
.I "\-d level"
Set the debug message level. Current levels are 1 - 5
.TP
.I \-n
Stops  the  daemon  from  forking  and  detaching  from the controlling
terminal. This is most useful for debugging purposes.
.TP
.I \-p
Set the promiscuous mode (Currently does nothing).
.TP
.I \-s port
Sets the IP port to listen to for the control port.
.TP
.I \-v
Sets the system logging to verbose.

.SH CONTROL PORT
The control port provides a simple interface for controlling the ports and 
viewing their status. To accomplish this, it has 7 commands. They are as 
follows:
.TP
.B enable port <TCP port expr>
Enable data transfer a port or device. This command is only valid for
ports with active network connections.
.TP
.B disable port <TCP port expr>
Disable data transfer a port or device. This command is only valid for
ports with active network connections.
.TP
.B disconnect port <TCP port expr>
Disconnects an existing network connection to a port or device. This command is 
only valid for ports with active network connections.
.TP
.B show port <TCP port expr>
Show the status of an individual port or all of the ports.
.TP
.B verbose
Toggle the displaying of a prompt and making the output a more user friendly.
Because this interface was primarily built for a another program to use. 
The default condition is to
.B not
have a prompt shown.
.TP
.B help
Display a short list and summary of commands.
.PP
The TCP port expressions are expected to be regular expressions to
match the ports with. For individual ports, their service name or the IP port
number may be given. To deal with multiple ports in one command, a regular 
expression should be used. To see or effect all ports, use the expression '.*'.
.PP
.SS Bug:
Sadly the the Control Port does not work with termnet! Use telnet to connect to it 
instead. The termnet program will just hang if you attempt to connect to 
the control port using it.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is accomplished through the file
.BR /etc/termnetd.conf .
A file with another name or path may be specified using the
.I \-c
option.  This  file consists of one or more entries with the following
format:
.IP
.BR "<IP port>:<state>:<device>:<termios options>;"
.PP
.SS FIELDS
.TP
.I "IP port"
Name  or number of the TCP/IP port to accept connections from for this
device.
.TP
.I state
Either 
.BR on
or
.BR off .
This  effectively enables or disables the port / device from accepting
connections.
.TP
.I device
The  name  of  the  device  to connect to. This must be in the form of
.BR /dev/<device> .
.TP
.I "termios options"
A  list  of  names  corresponding to the
.BR "termios options"
to be enabled
when the device is opened. These names must be capitalized and use the
same spelling as those specified in the 
.BR termios
man page.
.PP
Each  entry can use as many lines as needed to fit all of the required
termios  options.  Be  sure not to forget the semi-colon at the end of
the entry.
.PP
The  configuration  file  is  read  once at startup. The
.BR SIGHUP
signal  will  force the daemon to close any connections and re\-scan the
configuration file. 

.SS CONFIGURATION EXAMPLES
.BR "Example 1"
.PP
3000:on:/dev/cua1:B300 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3001:on:/dev/cua2:B300 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3002:on:/dev/cua3:B300 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
4000:on:/dev/cua1:B2400 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
4001:on:/dev/cua2:B2400 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
4002:on:/dev/cua3:B2400 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
5000:on:/dev/cua1:B9600 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
5001:on:/dev/cua2:B9600 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
5002:on:/dev/cua3:B9600 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
6000:on:/dev/cua1:B19200 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
6001:on:/dev/cua2:B19200 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
6002:on:/dev/cua3:B19200 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
This configuration allows you to connect to three different modems,
.BR /dev/cua1 ,
.BR /dev/cua2
and
.BR /dev/cua3 ,
at  three different baud rates. If you connect to the TCP/IP socket at
port
.BR 300X ,
you will connect at 300 baud, while ports 
.BR 400X ,
.BR 500X 
and
.BR 500X
will set the baud rate to 2400, 9600 and 19200 respectively.
.PP
The
.I CLOCAL
option  allows  you  to communicate with a modem without carrier being
present. The
.I CRTSCTS
option  causes the CTS and RTS lines to be used for flow control. Note
that  as  far  as  I  can  tell,  SCO, AIX and OSF do not support this
option.
.PP
.BR "Example 2"
.PP
3000:on:/dev/cua3:B300 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3000:on:/dev/cua2:B300 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3000:on:/dev/cua1:B300 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
3001:on:/dev/cua3:B2400 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3001:on:/dev/cua2:B2400 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3001:on:/dev/cua1:B2400 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
3002:on:/dev/cua3:B9600 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3002:on:/dev/cua2:B9600 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3002:on:/dev/cua1:B9600 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
3003:on:/dev/cua3:B19200 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3003:on:/dev/cua2:B19200 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.br
3003:on:/dev/cua1:B19200 CLOCAL IGNBRK CRTSCTS CS8;
.PP
This  configuration sets the ports up to be connected in a round robin
fashion. If multiple connections are made to the same socket, Ei. port
.BR 3000 ,
the  connection  will  be made to the first available device specified
for  the  port  number.  Note  that  the devices are listed in reverse
order.  This  is  because  the  internal  lists  to termnetd are built
backwards. Therefore, the first device to be connected to will be
.BR /dev/cua1 .

.SH FILES
/etc/termnetd.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
termnet(1), ttyd(1), termios(2)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
Connections from telnet program that do no option negotiation may cause
problems. This has been experienced using telnet from AIX where the 
destination port is not 'telnet'. The AIX telnet program only sends telnet 
negotiation to connections to the port 'telnet'.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Joe Croft <joe@croftj.net>
