.TH ttyd 1 01/08/00 GNU Remote Modem Utility for Unix

.SH NAME
ttyd \- Remote Modem Utility for Unix

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR ttyd
\-d
.I pty device
[
.I options
]
.I host port

.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page documents the
.BR ttyd
remote modem daemon.
The
.BR ttyd
daemon is fully telnet compatible allowing programs to connect to any remote
device such as networked modems and terminal servers as if they were 
local devices as long as the device utilizes the telnet protocol.
.PP
After opening a Master Pseudo tty device, the daemon will wait for some other process
to open the corresponding slave device. Once the slave device is opened, a connection 
will be made, using the telnet protocol, to a remote server. The remote end may be any
server supporting the telnet protocol such as a terminal server, network modem, or 
the 
.BR termnetd
process.
.PP
For reference, in Linux the Master Pseudo tty devices art the devices 
.B /dev/pty[a-ep-z][0-9a-f]
and the
slave devices are 
.B /dev/tty[a-ep-z][0-9a-f].
Other Unices may have different naming schemes.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-b baud-rate"
Sets the initial baud-rate of the device.
.TP
.I "\-d pty device"
Master Pseudo tty device to open and wait for a connection on. This
.I option
is not optional, it must be provided
.I "\-p port-settings"
Configures the port as specified by port settings.
.TP
.I "\-n"
No detach, do not run as a background process.
.PP
The
.I host
and
.I port 
parameters specify the host and IP port to connect to when the Slave Pseudo device is
opened.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
termnet(1), termnetd(1), termios(2)

.SH AUTHOR
Joe Croft <joe@croftj.net>
